# Full Stack Application

This is a full stack application built with a React frontend and a Node.js/Express backend. The application includes user authentication features such as signup, login, and OTP verification for secure actions.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
- [Running the Application](#running-the-application)
  - [Frontend](#frontend)
  - [Backend](#backend)
- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
- [Backend API Routes](#backend-api-routes)
- [Features](#features)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have the following software installed on your machine:

- Node.js (version >= 14.x)
- Yarn (version >= 1.x)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   git clone https://github.com/meesahil7/innobyte.git

2. Install dependencies for both the frontend and backend.

### Running the Application

## Frontend

To run the frontend:

1. Navigate to the ./client directory:
   cd client

2. Set the baseUrl in ./src/config/baseURL.js directory:
   change the value of baseUrl variable to api base url of backend

3. Install the dependencies:
   yarn

4. Start the development server:
   yarn dev

## Backend

To run the backend

1. Navigate to ./server directory:
   cd ./server

2. Install the dependencies:
   yarn

3. Start the development server:
   yarn dev

### Environment Variables

Set up the following environment variables in your backend. Create a .env file in the ./server directory with the following content:

- PORT=your_port_number
- MONGO_URI=your_mongodb_connection_string
- JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret_key
- USER=your_email_service_user
- PASSWORD=your_email_service_password

\*\* This password in env file can be generated by visiting manage your google account settings and searching for "app password". In other SMTP servers this will be different.

### Backend API Routes

The backend authentication routes are:

- POST baseUrl/auth/signup - Route to sign up a new user.
- POST baseUrl/auth/verifyEmail - Route to verify a user's email with OTP.
- POST baseUrl/auth/login - Route to log in a user.
- POST baseUrl/auth/verifyLogin - Route to verify a user's action with OTP after login.
- POST baseUrl/auth/resendOtp/:id - Route to resend OTP.
- POST baseUrl/auth/logout - Route to log out a user.

### Features

- Signup: Users can sign up and will be asked to verify their email with an OTP.
- Login: Users can log in and will be asked to verify their actions with an OTP.
- Email Verification: After signing up, users must verify their email address using an OTP sent to their email.
- Edge Case Handling: Various edge cases are covered to ensure robust authentication flows.
